>> Stewart: ON THIS EDITION FOR
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 22:
BELGIUM'S CAPITAL ON LOCKDOWN
FOR A SECOND DAY, AS OFFICIALS
SAY SUSPECTS IN THE PARIS TERROR
ATTACKS REMAIN AT LARGE.
AND SURVIVING THE PARIS CONCERT
HALL MASSACRE.
ONE WOMAN TELLS HER STORY
EXCLUSIVELY TO THE NEWSHOUR.
>> I WAS NOT FAR AT ALL FROM
ONE OF PEOPLE SHOOTING, BECAUSE
THERE WERE A LOT OF CASES
AROUND ME, A LOT OF, LIKE,
BULLET SHELLS.
>> Stewart: ALSO, IN OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT, CONVERTING
TRASH INTO HEAT AND ELECTRICITY.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
ALISON STEWART.
>> Stewart: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
I'M ALISON STEWART, IN FOR HARI
SREENIVASAN.
BELGIUM IS NOT BACKING DOWN FROM
ITS HIGHEST SECURITY ALERT LEVEL
TONIGHT, AS THE GOVERNMENT THERE
CONTINUES TO WARN OF POSSIBLE,
PARIS-STYLE ATTACKS AT SEVERAL
LOCATIONS IN ITS CAPITAL,
BRUSSELS.
THE BELGIAN INTERIOR MINISTER
SAYS "SEVERAL SUSPECTS" TIED TO
THE PARIS ATTACKS COULD BE AT
LARGE IN BELGIUM.
IN PARIS, SECURITY ALSO REMAINS
HIGH, EVEN AS THE CITY TRIES TO
RETURN TO NORMAL FOLLOWING THE
ATTACKS THAT KILLED 130 PEOPLE
MORE THAN A WEEK AGO.
THE NEWSHOUR'S STEPHEN FEE IS IN
PARIS AND HAS MORE.
>> Reporter: FOR A SECOND DAY,
HEAVILY ARMED SOLDIERS, AND
MILITARY VEHICLES GUARDED
BELGIUM'S LARGEST CITY.
THE SUBWAY, MUSEUMS, AND MOVIE
THEATERS WERE CLOSED.
BRUSSELS WILL MAINTAIN THESE
PRECAUTIONS THROUGH TOMORROW,
AND ORDER ALL SCHOOLS CLOSED.
BELGIAN PRIME MINISTER CHARLES
MICHEL SAYS MASS TRANSIT AND
SHOPPING CENTERS ARE AMONG THE
FEARED TARGETS.
>> (translated): WE HAVE
INFORMATION THAT LEADS US TO
BELIEVE THAT THE POTENTIAL
TARGETS ARE PLACES WHICH ARE
REGULARLY FREQUENTED.
>> Reporter: THE SECURITY GOES
BEYOND THE MANHUNT FOR SALEH
ABDESLAM, THE PARIS SUSPECT WHO
ENTERED BELGIUM THE MORNING
AFTER THE ATTACKS.
TODAY, ONE HIS BROTHERS APPEALED
FOR HIM TO TURN HIMSELF IN.
>> (translated): WE HOPE THAT
SALAH WILL GIVE HIMSELF UP.
WE'D PREFER TO SEE SALAH IN
PRISON THAN IN A CEMETERY.
>> Reporter: FRENCH POLICE ARE
ASKING THE PUBLIC TO COME
FORWARD WITH ANY INFORMATION TO
IDENTIFY THIS MAN-- A SUICIDE
BOMBER WHO BLEW HIMSELF UP
OUTSIDE THE NATIONAL SOCCER
STADIUM ON NOVEMBER 13.
FRANCE'S DEFENSE MINISTER SAYS
AN AIRCRAFT CARRIER NEAR SYRIA
WILL BE READY TOMORROW TO CARRY
OUT MORE AIRSTRIKES ON ISLAMIC
STATE, OR ISIS, MILITANTS
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PARIS
ATTACKS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA, SPEAKING IN
MALAYSIA AT THE END OF OVERSEAS
TRIP, SAYS THE U.S. WILL,"
DESTROY" ISIS.
>> WE WILL TAKE BACK LAND THAT
THEY ARE CURRENTLY IN.
WE WILL CUT OFF THEIR FINANCING,
WE WILL HUNT DOWN THEIR
LEADERSHIP.
WE WILL DISMANTLE THEIR
NETWORKS.
>> Reporter: IN PARIS, 2,500
SOLDIERS ARE DEPLOYED ACROSS THE
CITY.
TOURIST SITES WERE EMPTY, BUT
MANY PEOPLE WENT TO THE SITES
WHERE SO MANY LOST THEIR LIVES.
>> Stewart: WHEN TERRORISTS
ATTACKED SIX LOCATIONS IN PARIS
LAST WEEK, THE CONCERT HALL, THE
BATACLAN, SAW THE WORST
BLOODSHED.
89 PEOPLE DIED THERE.
ONE SURVIVOR WAS A 31-YEAR OLD
ENGLISH WOMAN WHO WENT TO THE
BATACLAN WITH A FRIEND.
THEY BOTH SURVIVED.
IN HER FIRST INTERVIEW ABOUT THE
ORDEAL, SHE SPOKE TO NEWSHOUR
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT MALCOLM
BRABENT.
>> Reporter: AFTER LIVING IN
PARIS FOR 13 YEARS, YORKSHIRE-
BORN FASHION DESIGN ASSISTANT
SARAH PERKS SAYS SHE FEELS MORE
FRENCH THAN BRITISH, ESPECIALLY
NOW THAT SHE SURVIVED THE
TERRORIST ATTACK ON THE BATACLAN
CONCERT HALL.
SO, HOW ARE YOU DOING?
>> I AM NOT QUITE SURE THAT IT
HAS SUNK IN, AND MORE THAN
ANYTHING, I AM INCREDIBLY LUCKY,
BUT OTHERWISE GLADNESS OF
MIRACULOUSLY OF BEING ALIVE SORT
OF OVERCOMES EVERYTHING ELSE AND
A LITTLE BIT NUMB.
>> Reporter: WHAT DID YOU SEE?
>> I ASSUMED IT WAS JUST TWO
PEOPLE SHOOTING AT ONE ANOTHER,
AND THAT AT ONE POINT ONE OF
THEM WOULD GET THE OTHER ONE,
AND IT WOULD ALL BE OVER AND
DONE WITH.
>> Reporter: BUT AS SHE
CAUTIOUSLY GLANCED AROUND AND
SAW THE CARNAGE, SARAH REALIZED
THE MAGNITUDE OF WHAT WAS
HAPPENING.
>> I MEAN, OBVIOUSLY, I
UNDERSTOOD IT WAS SERIOUS FROM
THE AMOUNT, THE QUANTITY OF GUN
NOISES AND ALSO FROM THE FACT
THAT I WAS VISIBLY NOT FAR AT
ALL FROM ONE OF PEOPLE SHOOTING,
BECAUSE THERE WERE A LOT OF
CASES AROUND ME, A LOT OF, LIKE,
BULLET SHELLS.
>> Reporter: FOR MORE THAN TWO
HOURS, SARAH LAY ON THE GROUND
AS THE TERRORISTS COMMITTED
MURDER AGAIN AND AGAIN.
OFF CAMERA, SHE SHOWED US A
BRUISE WHERE A BULLET GRAZED HER
SHOULDER.
>> THEN THE TERRORISTS GAVE A
PHONE NUMBER, SAID THAT THEY HAD
HOSTAGES, OBVIOUSLY, AND THEN
SAID THAT THEY HAD EXPLOSIVES.
SO THAT'S WHEN I WAS REALLY
LIKE, "OH GOD, WE'RE NOT GOING
TO GET OUT OF HERE ALIVE."
>> Reporter: HOW DID YOU MANAGE
TO HOLD IT TOGETHER?
>> I DON'T KNOW, YOU JUST DO.
EVERYONE WAS VERY, VERY QUIET,
VERY SILENT.
I MEAN, I'M NOT EXACTLY GOING TO
GO, "HEY, I'M HERE, I'M STILL
ALIVE, COME GET ME."
>> Reporter: DESCRIBE WHAT THOSE
TWO-AND-A-QUARTER-HOURS WERE
LIKE?
>> VERY LONG.
VERY, VERY LONG. VERY
FRIGHTENING, OBVIOUSLY, VERY
FRIGHTENING,
>> Reporter: SO WERE YOU PLAYING
DEAD, BASICALLY?
>> MOST PEOPLE WERE, YEAH, THE
ONES THAT GOT OUT, AT LEAST.
>> Reporter: EVENTUALLY, FRENCH
SPECIAL FORCES MOVED IN, KILLING
ONE TERRORIST.
TWO OTHERS BLEW THEMSELVES UP.
SARAH AND HER FELLOW HOSTAGES
WERE USHERED TO SAFETY.
DO YOU HAVE SURVIVOR'S GUILT?
>> YES, OF COURSE, I FEEL
GUILTY.
I FEEL GUILTY THAT I AM NOT MORE
OUTWARDLY, VISIBLY SHOWING
TRAUMA FOR THE PEOPLE THAT HAVE
LOST THEIR LIVES.
>> Reporter: SARAH BELIEVES ONE
MOTIVE OF THE TERRORISTS AND
THEIR CONTROLLERS WAS TO DIVIDE
WESTERN SOCIETY.
SHE SAYS HER VIEW OF MUSLIMS
WON'T CHANGE.
>> I REALLY HOPE THAT PEOPLE ARE
NOT GOING TO ALLOW IT AS AN
EXCUSE FOR RACISM.
NOT EVERYONE NAMED MOHAMMED IS A
TERRORIST.
THEY'RE MY FRIENDS, THEY'RE MY
COWORKERS, PEOPLE THAT I BUY
APPLES FROM ON A SUNDAY.
THEY'RE PEOPLE I SIT WITH ON THE
METRO-- THEY GIVE UP THEIR SEAT
FOR ME.
THIS HAS NOTHING TO WITH ISLAM.
THESE PEOPLE ARE NOT ABOUT
RELIGION-- THEY ARE ILL, THEY'RE
ILL.
>> Stewart: THE NEWSHOUR'S
STEPHEN FEE IS IN PARIS AND
JOINS US ONCE AGAIN.
STEPHEN, YESTERDAY ON THE
BROADCAST, YOU REPORTED ON THE
CHALLENGES FACED BY YOUNG FRENCH
MUSLIMS.
TONIGHT, YOU HAVE A STORY ABOUT
COMMUNICATING WITH FRENCH
CHILDREN ABOUT THE TERROR
ATTACKS.
>> Reporter: THAT'S RIGHT,
ALISON, EVER SINCE KING LOUIS
THE 14TH RULED FRANCE 300 YEARS
AGO, CARTOONING HAS BEEN A PART
OF FRENCH CULTURE.
THIS WEEK I VISITED THE EDITORS
OF A FRENCH MAGAZINE WHO ARE
EMBRACING THAT TRADITION.
>> Reporter: CARTOONIST AND
FATHER OF THREE, FREDERIC
BENAGLIA WAS GLUED TO THE TV
LAST WEEKEND, WATCHING COVERAGE
OF THE PARIS ATTACKS WITH HIS
15-YEAR OLD SON.
>> (translated): FIRST, WE
HEARD THE EXPLOSIONS, AND THEN
WE SAW THE NEWS THAT THERE WERE
ATTACKS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
WHERE WE HANG OUT ALL THE TIME
AND WHERE WE HAVE FRIENDS.
WE WERE OBVIOUSLY HORRIFIED.
>> Reporter: BENAGLIA DRAWS
CARTOONS FOR ONE OF FRANCE'S
MOST POPULAR CHILDREN'S
MAGAZINES, ASTRAPI, WHICH IS
GEARED TO KIDS 7-11 YEARS OLD.
>> (translated): THE NEXT DAY
WE THOUGHT, "WHAT CAN WE DO TO
EXPLAIN THIS TO KIDS?"
IT'S TRAUMATIC FOR THEM.
THESE EVENTS ARE REALLY, REALLY
TOUGH.
>> Reporter: BENAGLIA AND HIS
EDITOR GWENAELLE BOULET, WHO
HAPPENS TO BE HIS WIFE, DECIDED
TO PRODUCE A SPECIAL EDITION TO
EXPLAIN THE ATTACKS.
>> (translated): A LOT OF KIDS
WERE AFRAID.
AFRAID THAT THE BAD GUYS WOULD
COME TO THEIR HOUSES.
THAT WAS THE BIG QUESTION.
THEY WERE WONDERING, "CAN THE
BAD GUYS COME AND GET ME?"
>> Reporter: SO BOULET AND
BENGALIA DID WHAT THEY DO BEST:
SHE BEGAN TO WRITE, AND HE BEGAN
TO DRAW.
>> (translated): I DIDN'T WANT
SOMETHING TOO AGGRESSIVE.
I DIDN'T WANT IMAGES OF THE
EIFFEL TOWER BROKEN OR BLOODIED,
BUT I WANTED TO SHOW THE PAIN.
I THINK THAT'S THE FEELING WE
ALL HAD.
WE'RE A VERY DIVERSE SOCIETY.
I WANTED TO SHOW BLACK PEOPLE,
ARABS, WHITE PEOPLE, ASIANS, ALL
THE NATIONALITIES.
THAT WAS REALLY IMPORTANT.
>> Reporter: IN JUST 24 HOURS,
BOULET AND BENAGLIA PRODUCED A
TWO-PAGE, FREE-TO-DOWNLOAD
VERSION OF THEIR MAGAZINE.
SINCE THEY POSTED IT ONLINE A
WEEK AGO, THE WEBSITE HAS HAD
NEARLY TWO MILLION VISITORS.
>> (translated): THE FIRST
DRAWING WAS ABOUT COMPASSION AND
SADNESS.
THE SECOND WAS MORE ABOUT REVOLT
OR RESISTANCE, AND THEN IT ENDS
WITH THE WORD "FREEDOM."
FREEDOM IS AN IMPORTANT WORD.
IT SHOWS TO CHILDREN THAT YOU
CAN'T GIVE UP, YOU HAVE TO
PROTECT YOURSELF WITH THIS WORD
AND WITH THIS CONCEPT.
THESE ARE CONCEPTS THAT ARE NOT
EASY TO UNDERSTAND FOR KIDS, AND
SOMETIMES A DRAWING IS EASIER TO
UNDERSTAND THAN WORDS.
>> Reporter: CHILD PSYCHOLOGIST
CECILE VIENOT SAYS ILLUSTRATIONS
LIKE THOSE IN ASTRAPI'S SPECIAL
EDITION CAN HELP CHILDREN COPE
WITH TRAUMATIC EVENTS.
>> (translated): YOU CAN TRY
TO REPRESENT IT IN A MORE UPBEAT
WAY.
YOU CAN CHOOSE COLORS, OR TRY TO
EXPLAIN THE VALUES THAT WERE
UNDER ATTACK.
THERE ARE ILLUSTRATORS THAT HAVE
TRIED TO RECREATE A SCENE BY
DRAWING PEOPLE IN A CAFE ON A
TERRACE TO SHOW HOW OUR VALUES
WERE IMPACTED, MORE THAN SHOWING
AN ACTUAL SCENE OF A TERROR
ATTACK.
>> Reporter: BOULET SAYS THEY
DIDN'T WANT TO SHY AWAY FROM
DEALING WITH A DIFFICULT TOPIC.
BUT THE NEXT ISSUE OF THE
MAGAZINE PROBABLY WON'T ADDRESS
THE PARIS ATTACKS.
>> WE HAVE TO BE CAREFUL,
BECAUSE KIDS DON'T HAVE THE SAME
TIMING AS ADULTS.
ADULTS NEED TO REVISIT THINGS TO
FULLY UNDERSTAND THEM.
BUT KIDS ALSO HAVE A RIGHT, AND
IT'S THE RIGHT TO MOVE ON, TO
FORGET, TO LEAD THEIR LIVES AS
CHILDREN, AND TO PLAY.
>> Stewart: WATCH STEPHEN FEE'S
EARLIER REPORT ABOUT WHAT IT
MEANS TO BE YOUNG, FRENCH AND
MUSLIM.
JOIN THE CONVERSATION ON OUR
FACEBOOK PAGE AT
facebook.com/newshour.
>> Stewart: THE OFTEN
CONTENTIOUS DEBATE ABOUT
NATIONAL EDUCATIONAL STANDARDS
AND TESTING KIDS HAS TAKEN
ANOTHER TWIST, IN A STATE
CONSIDERED A LEADER IN EDUCATION
REFORM.
MASSACHUSETTS LAST WEEK DECIDED
TO REJECT THE TESTS BASED ON
FEDERAL COMMON CORE STANDARDS
TESTS THAT ARE STILL USED IN
MANY OTHER STATES.
INSTEAD, THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS WILL DEVELOP ITS
OWN EXAMS TO MEASURE STUDENT
PROGRESS.
"NEW YORK TIMES" REPORTER KATE
ZERNIKE IS COVERING THIS STORY
AND JOINS ME NOW.
YOU WROTE FOR THE BOSTON GLOBE
FOR YEARS.
YOU HAVE BEEN COVERING THIS
FOR A LONG TIME.
>> RIGHT.
>> WHAT WAS THE CATALYST IN
MASSACHUSETTS THAT MADE THE
BOARD SAY WE WANT TO CREATE OUR
OWN TEST WHICH IS A HYBRID
THING RATHER THAN A MULTISTATE
TEST?
>> IT CAME UNDER A LOT OF
POLITICAL FIRE, FROM BOTH SIDES.
AND FROM THE MIDDLE FROM A LOT
OF PARENTS WHO DIDN'T FEEL THEY
HAD A REALLY GOOD ARGUMENT ON
WHY WE WOULD WANT A NATIONAL
TEST WHICH MIGHT WANT US TO
COMPARE TO OTHER STATES.
YOU HAD FEDERAL OVERREACH, YOU
HAD TEACHERS UNION WHO SAY YOU
ARE TRYING TO TIE TEACHERS
EVALUATIONS.
AND PARENTS SAYING WHAT IS THE
POINT OF A NATIONAL TEST ANYWAY
WHETHER WE HAVE ONE TO BEGIN
WITH.
>> WHAT'S INTERESTING TO THIS
ALSO, THERE'S A MONEY COMPONENT
AS WITH MOST THINGS THAT THE
MONEY THAT SCHOOLS GET IS TIED
TO TEST SCORES RIGHT?
>> RIGHT.
>> HOW DOES THIS CHANGE?
>> MASSACHUSETTS HAS ALWAYS HAD
ACCOUNTABILITY SINCE THE 1994
ACCOUNTABILITY ACT, AROUND
THE IDEA OF HAVING COMMON
STANDARDS AND COMMON HIGH STAKES
TESTS THAT KIDS HAD TO PAST FOR
GRADUATION.
STANDARDS WEREN'T CREATED BY THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT BUT BY
NATIONAL GOVERNOR'S STANDARDS.
YOU ARE GOING TO HAVE TO SIGN ON
TO THESE STANDARDS AND THESE
TESTS.
THIS WAS PUNITIVE THIS WAS
OVERREACH BY THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT PEOPLE THOUGHT.
>> HASN'T MASSACHUSETTS ALWAYS
DONE INCREDIBLY WELL ON THE
TESTING?
WHAT'S THE NEED FOR THE CHANGE?
>> I THINK MASSACHUSETTS DID
YOU'RE RIGHT UNDER ITS PREVIOUS
SYSTEM OF STANDARDS AND TEST, IT
ROSE TO THE TOP OF THE NATIONAL
RANKINGS BUT WHAT THEY FOUND IS
THEY STILL HAD CHILDREN SHOWING
UP THAT NEEDED REMEDIAL
EDUCATION.
THE GOVERNORS ORGANIZATION
EFFORT TO WRITE NATIONAL
STANDARDS.
>> LET'S DIG DOWN A LITTLE BIT.
THIS IS ACTUALLY GOING TO BE A
HYBRID TEST.
CAN YOU EXPLAIN TO OUR VIEWERS
WHAT'S GOING ON WITH THE NEW
MASSACHUSETTS TEST?
>> THERE WERE TWO TESTS, CREATED
UNDER THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION'S
RACE TO THE TOP PROGRAM--
THE PARK AND THE SMARTER
BALANCE TESTS.
MASSACHUSETTS TEST WILL BE
CREATED FOR MASSACHUSETTS,
FEELING IT WILL BE TIED TO
MASSACHUSETTS STANDARDS AND THE
M-CAT TEST.
>> WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN THE TWO?
WHAT DO THEY CHERRY PICK FROM
ONE TO THE OTHER?
>> IT WAS TIED TO THE COMMON
CORE STANDARDS, THE M CATS WERE
TIED TO THE OLD STANDARDS.
THE STATE THOUGHT IT WAS
UPGRADING THE STANDARDS TO TIE
THEM TO THE COMMON CORE
STANDARDS.
>> LET'S PULL BACK OUTSIDE OF
MASSACHUSETTS.
THIS INFLUENTIAL STATE, MAKES
THIS BIG MOVE.
WHAT DOES THIS MEAN FOR THE
BIGGER PICTURE FOR COMMON CORE?
>> THE NEXT STEP IN
MASSACHUSETTS IS GOING TO BE A
BALLOT INITIATIVE OR PROPOSED
INITIATIVE THAT WOULD REPEAL
COMMON CORE.
THE TEST IS TIED TO THE COMMON
CORE, A LOT OF OTHER STATES WILL
LOOK TO MASSACHUSETTS, THE GOOD
HOUSEKEEPING SEAL OF APPROVAL,
IF THEY PULL BACK, WHAT'S WRONG
WITH THAT?
A LOT OF THIS ACCOUNTABILITY IN
TESTING DEVOLVE BACK TO THE
STATE RATHER THAN THE NATIONAL
WHERE IT'S BEEN FOR THE LAST
SEVERAL YEARS.
>> KATE ZERNIKE, THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
>> Stewart: HEAR FROM ONE HIGH
SCHOOL TEACHER WHO HAS LED A
BOYCOTT AGAINST STANDARDIZED
TESTING IN SEATTLE.
WATCH GWEN IFILL'S REPORT ONLINE
AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Stewart: AS PARIS RECOVERS
FROM THE NOVEMBER 13 TERRORIST
ATTACKS, THE CITY FACES ANOTHER
SECURITY CHALLENGE IN LITTLE
MORE THAN A WEEK, WHEN
DELEGATIONS FROM ALL OVER THE
WORLD ARRIVE FOR THE NEXT UNITED
NATIONS CONFERENCE ON CLIMATE
CHANGE.
THE GOAL OF THE CONFERENCE IS TO
SECURE AGREEMENTS THAT WOULD
REDUCE EMISSIONS OF CARBON
DIOXIDE.
IN TONIGHT'S "SIGNATURE
SEGMENT," WE LOOK AT HOW THE
CITY OF PARIS HAS REDUCED ITS
CARBON FOOTPRINT BY TURNING
TRASH INTO ELECTRICITY AND HEAT.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
LISA DESAI HAS THE STORY.
>> Reporter: ROSE BURKE AND JOHN
NEWMAN, AN AMERICAN COUPLE THAT
MOVED TO FRANCE OVER 20 YEARS
AGO, LIVE IN A THREE BEDROOM
APARTMENT ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF
PARIS.
MOST OF THEIR HEAT AND
ELECTRICITY IS POWERED BY
RENEWABLE SOURCES, WHICH WAS
IMPORTANT TO THEM.
>> THE ECO-FRIENDLY ASPECT OF
THE BUILDING APPEALED AT LEAST
TO ME.
WHY NOT TRY TO LIVE LIKE THE
THINGS THAT I CARE ABOUT?
>> THIS IS THE FIRST APARTMENT
HE GOT EXCITED ABOUT.
>> Reporter: EXCITED THAT PART
OF THEIR HEAT AND HOT WATER
COMES FROM GARBAGE.
THE PROCESS STARTS WHEN THEY
SEPARATE THEIR RECYCLABLES FROM
THEIR NON-RECYCLABLES.
>> SO THIS IS THE GARBAGE ROOM.
THIS IS WHERE WE THROW OUR
GARBAGE AND RECYCLING, AND IT'S
QUIET RIGHT NOW, BUT SOMETIMES
YOU CAN HEAR THIS GREAT
WHOOSHING SOUND OF IT BEING
CARRIED PNEUMATICALLY AWAY TO
THE PLANT.
>> Reporter: THE TUBES TAKE THE
TRASH FROM JOHN AND ROSE'S
BUILDING TO A PLANT CALLED
ISSEANE, ONE OF THREE FACILITIES
IN GREATER PARIS WHERE GARBAGE
THAT CAN'T BE RECYCLED IS
CONVERTED INTO ENERGY, SOME OF
WHICH THE PLANTS USE TO RUN
THEMSELVES.
NOT ALL OF THE GARBAGE COMES IN
THROUGH THE TUBES; SOME IS
BROUGHT IN BY TRUCKS FROM
SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOODS AND
TOWNS.
UNTIL RECENTLY, CHRISTOPHE
ALFEREZ OVERSAW THE PLANT'S
OPERATIONS.
HOW MUCH TRASH IS BROUGHT HERE
EVERY YEAR?
>> (translated): WE RECEIVE
460,000 TONS OF WASTE PER YEAR
IN THIS FACILITY.
>> Reporter: THE TRUCKS EMPTY
THE GARBAGE INTO THIS PIT, WHICH
HOLDS 9,000 TONS OF TRASH.
THEN THIS MACHINE PICKS IT UP
AND DUMPS IT IN A GIANT
INCINERATOR.
OK, WHAT'S HAPPENING RIGHT NOW?
>> (translated): THIS IS THE
COMBUSTION ROOM. IT IS HEATED TO
1,000 DEGREES. THIS IS WHERE WE
ELIMINATE THE TRASH BY BURNING
IT, AND WE ALSO RECOUP ENERGY
FROM THE TRASH THROUGH THE
TRANSFORMATION OF WATER INTO
STEAM.
>> Reporter: THE ENERGY CREATED
BY BURNING GARBAGE HEATS UP
WATER RUNNING THROUGH A NETWORK
OF BOILERS AND PIPES AND IS
TRANSFORMED INTO STEAM.
SOME STEAM IS CONVERTED INTO
ELECTRICITY.
MOST OF THE STEAM IS SOLD TO
CPCU, A COMPANY THAT CONVERTS IT
INTO HEAT.
A BYPRODUCT OF THIS PROCESS IS
ASH.
EVERY YEAR, 80,000 TONS OF ASH
FROM THIS PLANT IS MIXED WITH
CONCRETE USED TO PAVE ROADS AND
SIDEWALKS ALL OVER PARIS.
THE PLANT'S DIRECTOR OF
TECHNICAL SERVICES, PIERRE
HIRTZBERGER, GETS A LOT OF
QUESTIONS ABOUT HOW SAFE IT IS
TO BURN TRASH AND IF THE
EMISSIONS CREATED DURING
INCINERATION, KNOWN AS FLUE GAS,
ARE DANGEROUS.
>> WE HAVE FLUE GAS THAT YOU
HAVE TO TREAT, AND WE PUT A LOT
OF MONEY AND TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT
TO MAKE SURE THERE IS NO IMPACT
ON THE HEALTH OF THE PEOPLE WHO
ARE LIVING NEXT DOOR.
>> Reporter: BURNING WASTE SEEMS
TO BE A PROCESS THAT WOULD
CREATE A LOT OF POLLUTION.
IS THAT THE CASE HERE?
>> THE EMISSION LEVELS ARE AS
LOW AS WE CAN DO IT.
THERE IS A EUROPEAN LEGISLATION
FOR THE QUALITY OF THE FLUE GAS
THAT IS COMING FROM THIS KIND OF
FACILITY, BUT IN OUR FACILITY WE
REACH LEVELS THAT ARE LOWER THAN
WHAT'S THE LEGISLATION ASK US TO
DO.
>> Reporter: ISSEANE AND THE TWO
OTHER WASTE-TO-ENERGY PLANTS
PRODUCE 200,000 MEGAWATT HOURS
OF ELECTRICITY EVERY YEAR.
THAT'S ENOUGH ELECTRICITY TO
POWER 40,000 APARTMENTS IN
FRANCE.
THE PLANTS ALSO PRODUCE THE
STEAM TO SUPPLY 40% OF PARIS'S
HEATING NEEDS, WHICH IS
CURRENTLY ENOUGH TO HEAT 200,000
APARTMENTS, ALL 24 OF THE CITY'S
HOSPITALS, AND DOZENS OF FAMOUS
TOURIST SITES AND MUSEUMS,
INCLUDING THE LOUVRE.
ALL THAT POWER GENERATED BY
GARBAGE SAVES 300,000 TONS OF
FOSSIL FUELS AND AVOIDS THE
RELEASE OF 900,000 TONS OF
CARBON DIOXIDE INTO THE
ATMOSPHERE EVERY YEAR.
THAT'S EQUIVALENT TO TAKING
ALMOST 200,000 CARS OFF THE
ROAD.
MARK BARRIER IS THE MANAGING
DIRECTOR OF CPCU, THE COMPANY
THAT DISTRIBUTES HEAT FROM THE
PLANTS.
HE SAYS INCINERATION IS AN
EFFICIENT WAY TO TURN WASTE INTO
A RESOURCE.
>> THE WASTE THAT YOU ARE
DISPOSING IN THE LANDFILL WILL
BE THERE IN 10 YEARS, 100 YEARS.
HEAVY METALS AND PLASTIC AND
EVERYTHING WILL BE THERE.
SO USING THIS KIND OF MATERIAL
BEING PROPERLY PREPARED IN ORDER
TO PROVIDE HEAT AND TO AVOID
GREENHOUSE GAS PRODUCTION, I
THINK THAT'S GOOD, THAT'S A GOOD
IDEA.
>> Reporter: CPCU IS EXPLORING
NEW WAYS TO CAPTURE AND RECYCLE
HEAT THAT WOULD OTHERWISE BE
WASTED- HEAT EMITTED BY DATA
SERVERS, FACTORIES, TRAINS, AND
EVEN SEWAGE.
>> ALL THIS WASTED HEAT, I MEAN,
IF YOU DON'T REUSE, YOU JUST
BURN FOSSIL FUELS, AND THEN YOU
INCREASE THE GLOBAL WARMING.
>> Reporter: THE FRENCH
GOVERNMENT GRANTS SUBSIDIES FOR
FIRST-TIME HOME BUYERS.
BUT FOR THOSE WHO PURCHASE
ENERGY-EFFICIENT HOMES, LIKE
ROSE BURKE AND JOHN NEWMAN, THE
SUBSIDIES ARE EVEN LARGER.
IN THEIR CASE, NEARLY 40% OF
THEIR MORTGAGE IS INTEREST-FREE.
>> A LOT OF NEW BUILDS ARE GOING
UP AS ENERGY EFFICIENT, BECAUSE
THEY KNOW THAT HOMEOWNERS CAN
GET A BREAK ON THEIR LOAN.
>> Reporter: THEY ALSO SAY THEIR
HEATING BILLS ARE LOWER.
THE ONLY DIFFERENCE THEY'VE
NOTICED IS THEY CAN'T RAISE THE
HEAT ABOVE 75 DEGREES.
>> YOU CAN'T REALLY SORT OF
CRANK IT UP AND LIVE IN A SAUNA;
IT'S JUST NOT DESIGNED TO DO
THAT.
BUT IT STAYS AT A SORT OF LEVEL
TEMPERATURE NEARLY ALL YEAR
ROUND.
>> I FEEL I'M PART OF THE
SOLUTION RATHER THAN CONTINUING
TO BE PART OF THE PROBLEM.
I GUESS WE COULD ALWAYS DO A
LITTLE BIT BETTER, BUT BY BUYING
THIS PLACE I FEEL WE'RE MAKING A
CONTRIBUTION.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
SUNDAY.
>> Stewart: IRAN HAS SENTENCED"
WASHINGTON POST" REPORTER JASON
REZAIAN TO A PRISON TERM, BUT
HAS NOT SAID FOR HOW LONG.
IRAN FOUND REZAIAN GUILTY OF
SPYING AND OTHER CHARGES LAST
MONTH AFTER CLOSED-DOOR COURT
HEARINGS "THE POST" CALLS "A
SHAM."
REZAIAN, A JOINT US-IRANIAN
CITIZEN WHO GREW UP IN
CALIFORNIA, WAS THE NEWSPAPER'S
TEHRAN BUREAU CHIEF FOR TWO
YEARS UNTIL HIS ARREST AND
INCARCERATION 16 MONTHS AGO.
IN A STATEMENT TODAY TO THE
NEWSHOUR, REZAIAN'S BROTHER,
ALI, SAYS JASON IS INNOCENT AND
ADDED, "...THE IRANIAN JUDICIAL
PROCESS AROUND JASON'S CASE HAS
BEEN PROFOUNDLY FLAWED FROM THE
OUTSET.
THE CONFUSION AND LACK OF
TRANSPARENCY, HAS ONLY MADE THIS
SITUATION MORE DIFFICULT FOR
JASON AND OUR FAMILY."
MORE THAN 100 PEOPLE ARE STILL
UNACCOUNTED FOR AFTER LAST
NIGHT'S LANDSLIDE NEAR A JADE
MINE IN THE SOUTHEAST ASIAN
NATION OF MYANMAR.
RESCUERS TODAY PULLED
APPROXIMATELY 100 BODIES FROM
THE RUBBLE.
THE LANDSLIDE OCCURRED WHEN A
200 FOOT PILE OF MINING DEBRIS
GAVE WAY AND FELL ON AREAS WHERE
MINERS HAD BEEN SLEEPING IN
TENTS AND WHERE VILLAGERS WHO
LIVE IN HUTS DIG FOR THE
VALUABLE JADE GEMSTONES-- ONE OF
MYANMAR'S MOST VALUABLE EXPORTS.
IN THE U.S., SUB-FREEZING
TEMPERATURES ACROSS THE MIDWEST
ARE TURNING SNOW FROM THE FIRST
BIG WINTER STORM INTO ICE.
UP TO 16 INCHES OF SNOW FELL
FROM SOUTH DAKOTA TO WISCONSIN
YESTERDAY, CREATING TREACHEROUS
ROAD CONDITIONS.
11 INCHES OF SNOW FELL ON
CHICAGO, THE CITY'S LARGEST
NOVEMBER SNOWFALL IN 120 YEARS.
LOUISIANA HAS ELECTED A NEW
GOVERNOR, IN A RARE STATEWIDE
WIN FOR A DEMOCRAT.
LOUISIANA STATE REPRESENTATIVE
JOHN BEL EDWARDS DEFEATED
REPUBLICAN UNITED STATES SENATOR
DAVID VITTER IN YESTERDAY'S
RUNOFF, WITH 56% OF THE VOTE.
IT WAS THE FIRST TIME SINCE
BARACK OBAMA WAS ELECTED
PRESIDENT THAT A DEMOCRAT HAS
WON A STATEWIDE ELECTION IN
LOUISIANA.
EDWARDS WILL REPLACE INCUMBENT
GOVERNOR BOBBY JINDAL, WHO IS
STEPPING DOWN AFTER TWO TERMS.
THE DRESS JUDY GARLAND WORE
PLAYING DOROTHY IN "THE WIZARD
OF OZ" IS GOING ON THE AUCTION
BLOCK TOMORROW.
THE AUCTION HOUSE IN NEW YORK
EXPECTS THE BLUE AND WHITE
GINGHAM DRESS TO SELL FOR
AROUND $1 MILLION.
IT'S ONE OF 400 ITEMS OF
HOLLYWOOD MEMORABILIA FOR SALE,
INCLUDING COSTUMES FROM
"BEN-HUR" AND THE ROSEBUD SLED
FROM "CITIZEN KANE."
ON THE NEWSHOUR TOMORROW, AS
THE BUSIEST TRAVEL SEASON
BEGINS, WE'LL HAVE MORE
ANTITERRORISM EFFORTS IN EUROPE.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION
OF PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M ALISON STEWART, THANKS FOR
WATCHING.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.